Qonk
----

Qonk is a small build-and-conquer strategy game with very simple rules. A
complete game only lasts for a few minutes and can be a fun break away from
work or whatever you're doing.

The setting of the game is a solar system of planets. Your goal is to conquer
all of the planets in the game by sending ships there. Planets that are 
under your control generate new ships. Simple AI players are playing against
you. As you gain more experience throughout the game, more AI players have to
be kicked out of bigger solar systems.

(from http://anthony.liekens.net/index.php/Computers/Qonk)

The game is currently very much in beta and was written and published by
Anthony Liekens.

Dependencies
------------
To compile the program you will need to install SDL, SDL_ttf and SDL_gfx.
Just do a simple "make", and the program should be compiling.

Qonk-rs
-------
Qonk-rs is a simple functional change of the original name to denote that
I (Robert Schuster) modified it. Additionally I did not add a version number
but used the release date instead.

Modifications
-------------
(2007-02-17 Robert Schuster <robertschuster@fsfe.org>)

Starting from the 0.0.2beta1 code[0] a simpler way of selecting the 
ships has been implemented. Originally you had to draw a box around the
ships to form your fleet. Now you draw a box around your planets(use 
the left mouse button) or select a single planet (currently with the middle
mouse button) and confirm the move with a right-click on the target.

In this moment a pre-defined percentag of the ships at each planet will 
head towards the target. You can change the percentage any time by 
pressing the number keys (1 -> 10%, ..., 9 -> 90%, 0 -> 100%).

If you know galcon you know how it works.

Ah yes. The second small modification changes the way ship build time
is calculated. It is simple: The bigger the planet the shorter the build
time. Unfortunately I haven't touched the AI to hunt for the rich planets
first. Any volunteers?

Issues
------
- You cannot select ships which are already in the vasts of space.

Q & A
-----

Q: You have stolen an idea from galcon.
A: Thanks goodness software ideas are not patentable (at least in europe). It
   doesn't do galcon any harm if I implement a feature that they have and I like.
   So the idea is not *stolen* it has spread.

Q: What is your relation with galcon.
A: Nothing. I played it a while found it nice but found it inacceptable (for me)
   that it is not free software.

Q: What is your relation with the original QONK.
A: People on happypenguin.org wrote about it in the comments for galcon. So I
   downloaded, compiled and played it. I found it funny and wanted to add a few
   features. At first I wanted to see whether they make sense for QONK (I think
   they do) and then I wanted to push this back into the free and open-source
   software realm in the hope that someone else will add even more good stuff.

Q: Are you planning to do more work on QONK?
A: No. I don't have the time. However I would like to see that others pick it
   up where I left or modify the original source to their needs. QONK is
   well-written, add a bit more abstraction to e.g. the input handling and
   one can push it much farther and make it the second best free software
   time killer (after Frozen Bubble ;)).

[0] - http://anthony.liekens.net/pub/files/qonk-0.0.2beta1.tar.gz
